Subliminal Extacy 02 - A DREAM
A DREAM                             
                            -------                            
                         By Van of SPC                          
                         -------------                         
My sister came to me and told me, she had ordered something in  
our local coffee-shop (REM: In Germany coffee-shops you can     
mostly buy more things then only coffee), and there were also   
something for me. Then suddenly I found myself in our living    
room before an opened parcel (When will you unpack a parcel in  
your living room? (When it's the only room you have.ED)  Only at
christmas or in a dream, isn't it?). Then most parts of the     
content laid around the edge of the parcel, leaving a place in  
the middle of it. In this middle I saw something in black, just 
looking ... as a Microdrive. I was wondering about that they    
would be sold in our coffee-shop, but while I was unpack in our 
living room it disturbed me not longer. So I took one Cartridge.
                                                                
During I was taking them out, the Cardridge grows up and becomes
bigger and bigger until it reaches the double size than normal. 
On the Cartridge I saw the words: 400K Microdrive Cartridge.    
Should I have missed something in the Sinclair development? Has 
Sir Clive coming back and developed new drives? (Maybe.ED)      
                                                                
I thought, that it was for interest of all Speccy users. After  
taking the Cartridge out of packing, I saw a very professional  
looking label, was it commercial software?                      
                                                                
After reading the name of the program I thought for a little    
while: Oh fine, that there are now such big programs out for our
beloved Spectrum. But suddenly I saw the real meaning and the   
big danger for our lovely machine. (No, surely not.ED) The      
absolutely ruin for the Spectrum.                               
                                                                
I have to warn them all, I thought by myself. Every Speccy user 
has to be warned about this company. Hopefully it was not to    
late and every Plus D, Opus or Beta Disk was even contaminated. 
Misery dying for the Speccies ... determined to work with damned
software ... I have to warn them all, now, I have to warn them  
before "MICROSOFT WORD FOR SINCLAIR SPECTRUM"!                  
                                                                
                          VAN of SPC                           
                Freely translated by WoMo-Team                 
                      Spectrum Profi Club                      
                        Cologne/Germany