Micro 24 - AD&D - описания монстров AD&D (часть первая).
┌────────────────────────────┐
      │Предисловие к "Монстрятнику"│▒
      └────────────────────────────┘▒
        ▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒

  Приведенный  ниже  текст является частью
большого  описания  монстров  AD&D. Данный
текст  предназначен прежде всего любителям
и  профессионалам  AD&D.  Т.к.  текст ну-у
очень  большой  (приблизительно около двух
Мб),  то естественно, что закидывать в га-
зету нам приходится его частями. На резон-
ный  вопрос:  "Почему бы этот текст не вы-
пустить отдельными дисками?" могу ответить
лишь  одно:  из-за боязни, что диски могут
"затеряться в пути", чего не скажешь о га-
зете,  которую  легко можно передать через
друзей,  Фидо или Интернет. Также возможны
нарекания,  что текст на английском языке.
Однако  по моему мнению прошли те времена,
когда  для  компьютерщика можно было знать
один  язык.  Так что либо учите английски,
либо  ищите  друзей которые знают английс-
кий.  Также  перевод очень затруднен из-за
его художественности, кто пробовал перево-
дить  хоть какой-то текст с помощью ПЦшных
переводчиков  тот  меня поймет. Вот и все.
Желаю приятного прочтения и спокойных снов
по ночам. Со всеми вопросами обращаться по
адрессу  69123  г.Запорожье, ул. Хортицкое
шоссе  18/29.  Телефон  43-98-60, 49-62-02
(Александр).


      Advanced Dungeons & Dragons(r)
               2nd Edition


           Monstrous Manual(tm)
              Game Accessory

The  updated  Monstrous Manual(tm) for the
AD&D(r) 2nd Edition Game


TSR, Inc.    TSR Ltd.
POB 756      120 Church End
Lake Geneva  Cherry Hinton
WI 53147     Cambridge CB1 3LB
USA          United Kingdom


ADVANCED  DUNGEONS  & DRAGONS and AD&D are
registered trademarks owned by TSR, Inc.
The TSR logo and MONSTROUS MANUAL are tra-
demarks owned by TSR, Inc.

Project Coordinator: Tim Beach

Editor: Doug Stewart

Editorial Assistant: Gaye O'Keefe

Cover Illustration: Jeff Easley

Interior  Illustrations:  Tony  DiTerlizzi
(pencils,  inks,  and  colors  on insects,
crustaceans,  faerie-folk,  and  miscella-
neous creepy things), Jeff Butler (pencils
and inks on ssmans, demihumans, humanoids,
giants,  genies,  dragonets, and miscella-
neous  part-human  creatures), Dave Simons
(pencils,  inks, and colors on normal ani-
mals,  almost  normal animals, and squishy
things),  Tom Baxa (pencils, inks, and co-
lors on gith-kind and miscellaneous), Mark
Nelson (pencilssand inks on dragons, dino-
saurs,  and  miscellaneous), Les Dorscheid
(colors  on  most  of the book), Tim Beach
and Doug Stewart (invisible stalker)

Art  Coordination:  Peggy  Cooper with Tim
Beach

Typesetting: Gaye O'Keefe

Keylining: Paul Hanchette

Proofreading:   Karen   Boomgarden,   Anne
Brown,  Andia  Hayday,  Thomas Reid, David
Wise

Guidance:  Steve  Winter, Tim Brown, James
M. Ward

Monster  Selection  Committee: Jeff Grubb,
David Wise, John Rateliff, Tim Beach

Development: Tim Beach, Doug Stewart, Sla-
de  Henson, Thomas Reid, Jeff Grubb, Wolf-
gang Baur, Jon Pickens, John Rateliff

Design Concept for MONSTROUS COMPENDIUM(r)
Appendices:  David  "Zeb" Cook, Steve Win-
ter, Jon Pickens


We  would  like to offer special thanks to
the artists and the people who helped with
development,  as well as Rich Baker, Caro-
lyn  Chambers, Bill Connors, Peggy Cooper,
Slade  Henson,  Dawn Kegley, Dan8 Knutson,
Georgia S. Stewart, and Sue Weinlein. Many
people have contributed to either the ori-
ginal  first  edition  monster books or to
the  MONSTROUS  COMPENDIUM(tm) appendices.
The list that follows may not be complete,
but  we  would like to thank the following
people  for  their  contributions  t?  the
monsters  described  in this book: the de-
signers  and editors, Rich Baker, Jay Bat-
tista,  Wolfgang  Baur,  Tim  Beach, Scott
Bennie,  Donald  J.  Bingle, Linda Bingle,
Karen Boomgarden, Grant Boucher, Al Boyce,
Mike  Breault,  Anne Brown, Tim Brown, Dr.
Arthur  W.  Collins,  Bill  Connors, David
Denning, Dale Donovan, Newton Ewell, Nigel
Findley, Steve Gilbert, Ed Greenwood, Jeff
Grubb,  Gary Gygax, Luke Gygax, Allen Ham-
mack,  Kris & Steve Hardinger, Andria Hay-
day,  Bruce  A. Heard, Slade Henson, Tracy
Hickman,  Harold  Johnson,  Rob King, Vera
Jane  Koffler, Heike Kubasch, Steve Kurtz,
J.  Paul  LaFountain,  Lenard Lakofka, Jim
Lowder,  Franois  Marcela-Froideval, David
Martin, Colin McComb, Anne McCready, Blake
Mobley,  Kim  Mohan, Roger E. Moore, Chris
Mortika, Bruce Nesmith, C. Terry Phillips,
Jon  Pickens,  Brian  Pitzer,  Mike Price,
Louis J. Prosperi, Tom Prusa, Jean Mu, Pa-
ul  Reiche,  Jim  Sandt,  Lawrence Schick,
Rick  Swan,  Greg Swedburg, Teeuwynn, John
Terra, Gary Thomas, Allen Varney, James M.
Ward, Dori Watry, Skip Williams, and Steve
Winter;  the artists who helped define the
monsters,  Tom  Baxa,  Brom,  Jeff Butler,
Clyde  Caldwell, Doug Chaffee, Tony DiTer-
lizzi,  Les  Dorscheid, Jeff Easley, Larry
Elmore,  Fred Fields, Jim Holloway, Daniel
Horne, Mark Nelson, Keith Parkinson, Harry
Quinn, Robh Ruppel, Dave Simons, Dave Sut-
herland,  D.A.  Trampier, Valerie Valusek;
and  the people who put the books together
and  make  them look good, Linda Bakk, Dee
Barnett,  Steve  Beck, Peggy Cooper, Sarah
Feggestad,  Paul  Hanchette,  Angelika Lo-
kotz,  Gaye  O'Keefe, Stephanie Tabat, and
Tracey  Zamagne;  and  anyone who has ever
asked  a  question,  offered  constructive
criticism,  written an article, or offered
an  opinion  about  the  monsters  of  the
AD&D(r)  game. Special thanks to Christop-
her  M. Carter and Seth Goodkind for spot-
ting errors.


ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, AD&D, DRAGON,
DRAGONLANCE,  FIEND  FOLIO,  FORGOTTEN RE-
ALMS,  GREYHAWK,  RAVENLOFT,  SPELLJAMMER,
and  WORLD OF GREYHAWK are registered tra-
demarks  owned by TSR, Inc. AL-QADIM, DARK
SUN, MONSTROUS COMPENDIUM, DUNGEON MASTER,
DM,  and the TSR logo are trademarks owned
by TSR, Inc. All TSR characters, character
names, and the distinctive likenesses the-
reof are trademarks owned by TSR, Inc.

Random  House  and its affiliate companies
have  worldwide distribution rights in the
book  trade  for English language products
of TSR, Inc.

Distributed to the book and hobby trade in
the United Kingdom by TSR, Ltd.

Distributed  to the toy and hobby trade by
regional distributors.

This material is protected under the copy-
right  laws of the United States of Ameri-
ca. Any reproduction or other unauthorized
use  of  the material or artwork contained
herein  is  prohibited without the express
written consent of TSR, Inc.

Copyright (c)1995 TSR, Inc. All Rights Re-
                 served.


How To Use This Book

This  hardcover Monstrous Manual was crea-
ted  in  response  to the many requests to
gather monsters into a single, durable vo-
lume  which  would be convenient to carry.
With  the  DUNGEON  MASTER(tm) Guide (DMG)
and the Player's Handbook (PHB), the Mons-
trous Manual forms the core of the AD&D(r)
2nd Edition game.
  Every monster from the MONSTROUS COMPEN-
DIUM(r)  Volumes One and Two are contained
within,  as  well  as a few creatures from
later  volumes.  The monsters in the Mons-
trous  Manual  have  been revised, edited,
and  updated.  Statistics  for many of the
creatures  have been corrected, new infor-
mation  has been added to many of the ent-
ries,  and many monsters have been reclas-
sified.  There  are  some  new  beasts, as
well. In cases of conflicting information,
the  Monstrous  Manual supersedes all pre-
viously published data.
  Certain  entries  have been greatly con-
densed  from MONSTROUS COMPENDIUM entries,
to  make this book as complete as possible
without  increasing its size or price. For
instance, there is a full-page description
of  ravens in the MONSTROUS COMPENDIUM ap-
pendix  for  the GREYHAWK(r) campaign set-
ting;  in this book, ravens are given only
a few lines in the "Bird" entry. This pro-
vides  enough information to use the crea-
tures for a short encounter, and it allows
a page to be devoted to another adversary.
  To  find  a  monster  in this book, flip
through  the  pages  or look in the index,
which contains listings for the common na-
me(s)  of every monster in the book, refe-
renced to the correct page.
  All  of  the monsters described here are
typical  for  their  type. DMs should note
that  unusual  variations  are encouraged,
but  they are most effective when they de-
part  from the expected. Likewise, entries
describe typical lairs for creatures, from
the  dungeon complexes they inhabit to the
tree  houses they build; changing the look
of these can make a monster encounter uni-
que.

Contents
This introduction describes how to interp-
ret  the monsters in this book. In additi-
on,  there  are  three small appendices in
the back of the book. The first deals with
making monsters. The second covers monster
summoning  and  includes tables for random
determination  of  summoned  creatures; to
make  random encounter charts for a campa-
ign,  the DM should refer to Chapter 11 of
the  DMG.  The third appendix is concerned
with creating NPC parties.

Other Worlds
Several  of the monsters in this book have
been   imported   from   specialized  game
worlds,  such as the SPELLJAMMER(r) campa-
ign  setting, the FORGOTTEN REALMS(r) set-
ting,  or the DARK SUN(r) world. The mons-
ters  in this book may be used in any set-
ting;  if  a campaign setting is noted, it
simply  describes  where  the  monster was
first encountered, or where it is the most
common. A particular monster still may not
be  encountered  in  a  specific  campaign
world;  this is up to the DM. For monsters
from  one  of  the specific worlds, the DM
should  consult  the appropriate MONSTROUS
COMPENDIUM appendices.

The Monsters
Each monster is described fully, with ent-
ries that describe behavior, combat modes,
and so on. These are explained in the fol-
lowing text.

CLIMATE/TERRAIN defines where the creature
is most often found. Climates include arc-
tic,  sub-arctic, temperate, and tropical.
Typical  terrain includes plain/scrub, fo-
rest, rough/hill, mountain, swamp, and de-
sert. In some cases, a range is given; for
instance,  "cold" implies arctic, sub-arc-
tic,  and colder temperate regions. FREQU-
ENCY  is  the likelihood of encountering a
creature in an area. Chances can be adjus-
ted for special areas.

        Very rare = 4% chance
        Rare      = 11% chance
        Uncommon  = 20% chance
        Common    = 65% chance

ORGANIZATION  is the general social struc-
ture the monster adopts. "Solitary" inclu-
des small family groups.

ACTIVITY CYCLE is the time of day when the
monster  is  most  active. Those active at
night can be active at any time in subter-
ranean  settings. These are general guide-
lines and exceptions are fairly common.

DIET shows what the creature usually eats.
Carnivores   eat   meat,   herbivores  eat
plants,  and omnivores eat either. Scaven-
gers  primarily  eat carrion. If a monster
does  not fit any of these categories, the
substances  it  does  eat are described in
the entry or in the text.

INTELLIGENCE  is  the  equivalent of human
"IQ."  Certain  monsters are instinctively
cunning;  these  are  noted in the monster
descriptions.  Ratings  correspond roughly
to the following Intelligence ability sco-
res:

  0     Nonintelligent or not ratable
  1     Animal intelligence
  2-4   Semi-intelligent
  5-7   Low intelligence
  8-10  Average (human) intelligence
  11-12 Very intelligent
  13-14 Highly intelligent
  15-16 Exceptionally intelligent
  17-18 Genius
  19-20 Supra-genius
  21+   Godlike intelligence

TREASURE  refers to the treasure tables in
the  DUNGEON  MASTER  Guide. If individual
treasure is indicated, each individual may
carry it (or not, at the DM's discretion).
Major  treasures  are usually found in the
monster's  lair;  these are most often de-
signed  and  placed by the DM. Intelligent
monsters  will  use the magical items pre-
sent and try to carry off their most valu-
able treasures if hard pressed. If treasu-
re is assigned randomly, roll for each ty-
pe possible; if all rolls fail, no treasu-
re  of  any type is found. Treasure should
be adjusted downward if a few monsters are
encountered.  Large treasures are noted by
a multiplier (x10, for example); this sho-
uld  not be confused with treasure type X.
Treasure  types  listed in parentheses are
treasures found in the creatures' lair. Do
not  use the tables to place dungeon trea-
sure,  since  the  numbers encountered un-
derground will be much smaller.

ALIGNMENT  shows  the  general behavior of
the average monster of that type. Excepti-
ons, though uncommon, may be encountered.

NO. APPEARING indicates an average encoun-
ter  size  for a wilderness encounter. The
DM  should  alter this to fit the circums-
tances as the need arises. This should not
be used for dungeon encounters.
  Note  that  some  solitary creatures are
found in small groups; this means they are
found  in very small family units, or that
several  may  happen to be found together,
but do not cooperate with one another.

ARMOR CLASS is the general protection worn
by humans and humanoids, protection due to
physical  structure  or magical nature, or
difficulty in hitting due to speed, refle-
xes,  etc. Humans and humanoids of roughly
man-size  that  wear  armor  will  have an
unarmored rating in parentheses. Listed AC
does not include any special bonuses noted
in the description.

MOVEMENT  shows  the relative speed rating
of the creature. Higher speeds may be pos-
sible for short periods. Human, demihuman,
and humanoid movement rate is often deter-
mined  by  armor type (unarmored rates are
given  in parentheses). Movements measures
in  special  units  (man  movement = 12; 1
unit  approximately  equal  0.5 kilometres
per hour), as follows:

  Fl = flying
  Sw = swimming
  Br = burrowing
  Cl = climbing
  Wb = moving across webs

  Flying  creatures also have a Maneuvera-
bility  Class from A to E. Class A creatu-
res have virtually total command over the-
ir  movements  in the air; they can hover,
face  any  direction in a given round, and
attack  each  round. Class B creatures are
very  maneuverable;  they  can hover, turn
180 degrees in a round, and attack in each
round. Class C creatures are somewhat agi-
le  in the air; they cannot move less than
half  their movement rate without falling,
they can turn up to 90 degrees in a round,
and attack aerially once every two rounds.
Class  D creatures are somewhat slow; they
cannot  move less than half their movement
rate  without  falling,  can  turn only 60
degrees  in  a  round, and can make a pass
once  every three rounds. Class E includes
large,  clumsy  fliers;  these cannot move
less than half their movement rate without
falling, can turn only 30 degrees in a ro-
und,  and they can make one pass every six
rounds.  See Chapter 9 of the DMG for more
information.

HIT DICE controls the number of hit points
damage a creature can withstand before be-
ing  killed.  Unless otherwise stated, Hit
Dice are 8-sided (1-8 hit points). The Hit
Dice  are rolled and the numbers shown are
added  to  determine the monster's hit po-
ints. Some monsters have a hit point spre-
ad  instead of Hit Dice, and some have ad-
ditional  points  added to their Hit Dice.
Thus,  a  creature  with  4+4 Hit Dice has
4d8+4  hit  points (8-36 total). Note that
creatures  with  +3 or more hit points are
considered  the  next  higher  Hit Die for
purposes   of   attack  rolls  and  saving
throws.

THAC0 is the attack roll the monster needs
to  hit  Armor  Class  0. This is always a
function  of  Hit Dice, except in the case
of  very  large,  nonaggressive herbivores
(such  as  some  dinosaurs),  or creatures
which  have certain innate combat abiliti-
es.  A  human  or  demihuman always uses a
player   character  THAC0,  regardless  of
whether  they  are  player  characters  or
"monsters." The THAC0 does not include any
special bonuses noted in the descriptions.

NUMBER  OF ATTACKS shows the basic attacks
the  monster  can  make  in a melee round,
excluding special attacks. This number can
be  modified  by  hits that sever members,
spells  such  as  haste  and  slow, and so
forth.  Multiple  attacks indicate several
members, raking paws, multiple heads, etc.

DAMAGE/ATTACK shows the amount of damage a
given attack causes, expressed as a spread
of hit points (based on a die roll or com-
bination  of  die  rolls).  If the monster
uses weapons, the damage done by the typi-
cal  weapon will be allowed by the parent-
hetical  note "weapon." Damage bonuses due
to  Strength  are listed as a bonus follo-
wing the damage range.

SPECIAL  ATTACKS  detail attack modes such
as  dragon  breath,  magic use, etc. These
are explained in the monster description.

SPECIAL  DEFENSES  are precisely that, and
are detailed in the monster description.

MAGIC  RESISTANCE is the percentage chance
that any magic cast upon the creature will
fail to affect it, even if other creatures
nearby are affected. If the magic penetra-
tes  the resistance, the creature is still
entitled  to any normal saving throw allo-
wed.  Creatures  may  have  resistances to
certain  spells;  this  is  not considered
"magic  resistance",  which  is  effective
against all spells.

SIZE is abbreviated as

 T = tiny (2' tall or less);
 S = smaller than a typical human
     (2+' to 4');
 M = man-sized (4+' to 7');
 L = larger than man-sized (7+' to 12');
 H = huge (12+' to 25'); and
 G = gargantuan (25+').

Most  creatures  are measured in height or
length;  some  are  measured  in diameter.
Those  measured in diameter may be given a
different  size  category  than  indicated
above.  For  instance, while a 6-foot tall
humanoid is considered size M, a spherical
creature  6 feet in diameter has much more
mass,  so is considered size L. Similarly,
a  creature 12 feet long with a very slen-
der  body (like a snake) might be conside-
red only man-sized. Adjustments like these
should  not  move a creature more than one
size category in either direction.

MORALE  is  a general rating of how likely
the monster is to persevere in the face of
adversity or armed opposition. This guide-
line  can  be adjusted for individual cir-
cumstances.  Morale  ratings correspond to
the following range:

  2-4   Unreliable
  5-7   Unsteady
  8-10  Average
  11-12 Steady
  13-14 Elite
  15-16 Champion
  17-18 Fanatic
  19-20 Fearless

XP  VALUE  is the number of experience po-
ints awarded for defeating, but not neces-
sarily killing, the monster. This value is
a guideline that can be modified by the DM
for the degree of challenge, encounter si-
tuation, and for overall campaign balance.

Combat is the part of the description that
discusses  special  combat abilities, arms
and armor, and tactics.

Habitat/Society outlines the monster's ge-
neral  behavior, nature, social structure,
and goals. In some cases, it further desc-
ribes  their  lairs  (the places they live
in), breeding habits, and reproduction ra-
tes.

Ecology describes how the monster fits in-
to  the  campaign  world, gives any useful
products or byproducts, and any other mis-
cellaneous information.

Variations  of  a  monster  are given in a
special  section  after  the  main monster
entry.  These  can  be found by consulting
the  index.  For  instance, the xorn entry
also  describes  the xaren, a very similar
creature.

Psionics  are  mental  powers possessed by
many  creatures  in  the Monstrous Manual.
The  psionic listings are explained below:
Level:  How  tough the monster is in terms
of psionic experience level.

Dis/Sci/Dev: How many disciplines the cre-
ature  can  access,  followed by the total
number of sciences and devotions the crea-
ture knows. Monsters can know sciences and
devotions  only  from the disciplines they
can access.

Attack/Defense:  The telepathic attack and
defense  modes  that the creature can use.
Note  that  defense modes are not included
in the total number of powers the creature
knows. Abbreviations used are as follows:

 PB  Psionic Blast │M- Mind Blank
 MT  Mind Thrust   │TS Thought Shield
 EW  Ego Whip      │MB Mental Barrier
 II  Id Insinuation│IF Intellect Fortress
 PsC Psychic Crush │TW Tower of Iron Will

Power  Score:  The  creature's usual score
when  using  a power that is not automati-
cally successful.

PSPs: The creature's total pool of psionic
strength  points (the maximum available to
it).
  The  rest  of  the listing indicates, by
discipline, which powers the creature has,
sometimes  listing the most common powers,
sometimes listing only the powers that all
members of the species have. Unless other-
wise  noted, the creature always knows po-
wers marked by an asterisk.
  For  information  regarding  psionic po-
wers,  see  PHBR5,  The  Complete Psionics
Handbook.  If  the  DM  chooses not to use
psionics  in  the campaign, the powers can
be changed to magical equivalents or simp-
ly ignored, though the latter severely im-
pedes certain monsters.

Aarakocra

CLIMATE/TERRAIN:  Tropical and temperate
                  mountains
FREQUENCY:        Very rare
ORGANIZATION:     Tribal
ACTIVITY CYCLE:   Day
DIET:             Carnivore
INTELLIGENCE:     Average (8-10)
TREASURE:         D
ALIGNMENT:        Neutral good
NO. APPEARING:    1-10
ARMOR CLASS:      7
MOVEMENT:         6,  Fl 36 (C)
HIT DICE:         1+2
THAC0:            19
NO. OF ATTACKS:   2
DAMAGE/ATTACK:    1-3/1-3 or 2-8 (weapon)
SPECIAL ATTACKS:  Dive +4
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil
SIZE:             M (20' wing span)
MORALE:           Steady (11)
XP VALUE:         65


The  aarakocra  are  a race of intelligent
bird-men  that  live  on  the peaks of the
highest mountains, spending their days so-
aring  on  the  thermal winds in peace and
solitude.
  Aarakocra are about 5 feet tall and have
a  wing  span  of  20  feet. About halfway
along the edge of each wing is a hand with
three human-sized fingers and an opposable
thumb.  An elongated fourth finger extends
the  length of the wing and locks in place
for  flying.  Though the wing-hands cannot
grasp  during  flight,  they are nearly as
useful as human hands when an aarakocra is
on  the  ground  and  its wings are folded
back.  The  wing  muscles anchor in a bony
chest  plate  that  provides the aarakocra
with  extra  protection. The powerful legs
end  in  four sharp talons that can unlock
and  fold  back  to reveal another pair of
functional  hands,  also  with  three  hu-
man-sized  fingers and an opposable thumb.
The  hand bones, like the rest of an aara-
kocra's skeleton, are hollow and fragile.
  Aarakocra faces resemble crosses between
parrots  and  eagles. They have gray-black
beaks,  and  black  eyes  set frontally in
their  heads  that  provide keen binocular
vision. Plumage color varies from tribe to
tribe,  but generally males are red, oran-
ge, and yellow while females are brown and
gray.
  Aarakocra  speak their own language, the
language  of giant eagles, and, on occasi-
on, the common tongue (10% chance).

Combat:  In  aerial  combat,  an aarakocra
fights  with  either  talons  or the heavy
fletched  javelins that he clutches in his
lower hands. An aarakocra typically carri-
es  a  half dozen javelins strapped to his
chest in individual sheaths. The javelins,
which  can  be  used for throwing or stab-
bing,  inflict 2d4 points of damage. Owing
to  the  aarakocra's  remarkable  skill at
throwing  javelins  in  the air, it incurs
none  of  the  attack penalties for aerial
missile fire. An aarakocra will always sa-
ve  its last javelin for stabbing purposes
rather  than throwing it. Its favorite at-
tack  is  to dive at a victim while clutc-
hing a javelin in each hand, then pull out
of the dive just as it reaches its target,
and  strike  with a blood-curdling shriek.
This attack gains a +4 bonus to the attack
roll  and causes double damage, but an aa-
rakocra  must  dive  at  least 200 feet to
execute it properly.
  An  aarakocra  is reluctant to engage in
grappling or ground combat, since its fra-
gile bones are easily broken. Though rare-
ly  used except when cornered, an aarakoc-
ra's sharp beak can bite for 1-3 points of
damage.

Habitat/Society:  Aarakocra  live in small
tribes  of  about 11-30 (1d20+10) members.
Each tribe has a hunting territory of abo-
ut  10,000 square miles with colorful ban-
ners and pennants marking the boundaries.
  Each tribe lives in a communal nest made
of woven vines with a soft lining of dried
grass.  The eldest male serves as the tri-
be's  leader.