Subliminal Extacy 01 - Editorial
Editorial                           
                            ---------
                         By Bogie Of E-3                        
                         ---------------
   Welcome to this the first real issue of Subliminal Extacy!!  
Some of you maybe wondering why we have released this because in
Inner Universe we said that we were leaving the Speccy scene to 
join the Amiga scene!!!  Well we have had phone calls and       
letters from other Speccy freaks asking us to stay with speccy! 
So because we still have a space in our hearts for speccy we    
have decided to give the Amiga scene the elbow!!!  We are       
staying on Speccy in the hope that no-one else leaves!!!  If    
anyone dares to leave we will be the first to write to you and  
advise you not to leave!!!!  Together we can keep Speccy alive!!
                                                                
Well you maybe wondering what we have been up to since          
Subliminal Extacy #0!!!!  Well we done One Tooo Many 2, Our     
second 24 hour all night demo getting pissed as fuck!!!  We     
also, finally, completed Inner Universe which contained 13 parts
with 2 guest parts and a guest scroll part for those who aren't 
that good at code!!!  Inner Universe scored 10/10 in a recent   
review in PD Power!!!  We also wrote a small demo with the      
United Minds when they came down to Bristol and we also Done a  
small demo when we went upto Scotland for a weekend!!!  The last
bit of programming we done is this issue of Subliminal Extacy   
(see 'How To Use Subliminal Extacy' for extra keys!) I have     
totally re-designed the menu and we have 'taken over' Sinclair  
Classic!!!  This means that the Sinclair Classic Team now write 
articles for Subliminal Extacy!!!!  Hence why there is a lot of 
articles by Pandagirl, Clare Bear and Fudge Packer!!!           
                                                                
Well off of the codeing subject, I have also been travelling    
around the U.K. alot in the past month or two and have met up   
with many other British Speccy Freaks (See 'Bogie Goes          
Walk-a-bouts' for more info.).  I have also been 'Eyeing up' a  
young girl (Carey aged 16 or 17), she has long blonde hair and  
blue eyes!!!  Fwoar yeah, boner!!!!!  I shall up date you on    
this in Subliminal Extacy #2!!!!                                
                                                                
                           News on E-3                          
                           -----------
L.A. and I    There isn't much to say apart from we are staying 
              on Speccy!                                        
                                                                
Brainer       He is not doing much on the Speccy and seems to   
              concentrate more on the Amiga even though L.A. and
              I are staying on Speccy                           
                                                                
Gwi           His job involves him travelling a lot!!  He works 
              on a ship which travels all around the South coast
              of the U.K. and sometimes goes to  Malta where he 
              is at the moment.  This means he gets very little 
              time for speccy and will only do bits for small   
              demos and write articles for Subliminal Exatcy!!  
                                                                
Zack          He hasn't done any Speccy work for ages because of
              his degree that he is doing.  He has though ever  
              said to me that he shall try to do some fx for our
              future productions!!  In September he is moving to
              Germany to do a year of his degree.               
                                                                
K-Os          He is producing some amazing Gfx that we will be  
              using in future productions.  We may even do a    
              slide show of some of his work!!!  My favourite   
              piccy of his is the fish in the guest scrolls part
              of Inner Universe!!!                              
                                                                
Well enjoy the rest of this issue of Subliminal Extacy and I    
shall enjoy making your lifes that little bit better!!