Scenergy 02 - Demo Party - пресс релиз Латвийского демопати PHAT'9.
the official press release                          Phantasy and
from PHAT9 organizers                         illegal promotions
10.10.99

   the true eight bit show - PHAT9 - your last summer tears

The party, which took place on 25.09.99 in Riga, Latvia is over.
To cut the crap short, it was a succesful event, however with so
much people  screwing up the  organizers it was quite  different
than expected.

The main organizer which turned out to be almost only one, Raver
of  Phantasy,  did  all he  promised  in  the invitation  not to
mention things like projector, free entrance to club "Metro" and
institute's  canteen  with  cheap and good  food.  But,  the low
support caused by innert  sceners and quite  limited advertising
campaign changed  everything  into meeting  of  Phantasy members
rather than what was expected.  Also, homepage wasn't put online
partly  because  Slagge/Dual Crew Shinning  did not  care  about
organizers  request and partly  because they had no time to find
another location. So why the fuck DCS are advertising and offer-
ing their c64.org domain if they screw up when it's really need-
ed?  And so,  few days  before  party the  hall in  Institute of
Inorganic Chemistry was exchanged for a quite small  Phantasy HQ
and main action  took part here,  also in Irish Pub and actually
in quite a lot places in Riga. The change of partyplace caused a
change of subtitle as well,  so this year's  PHAT is entitled as
"Your Last Summer Tears".

Releasewise,  speccy  compos gathered  some nice stuff,  but the
c=64 side showed incredible inactivity making the compo useless.
See official results in magazine  and grab compo stuff from Acid
Nature or The Digital Dungeon.

Still  Phantasy  and  illegal promotions  are looking forward to
organize  PHAT0  and hoping that the event  will take a well de-
served place in your next year's schedule.

signed,
Raver/Phantasy