Subliminal Extacy 02 - ACB Stereo - A New Sound Experience
ACB Stereo - A New Sound Experience              
               -----------------------------------              
                            By L.A.                             
                            ------                            
Recently I gave my speccy a small enhancement.  I gave it ACB   
stereo.  'Is it any good?' I hear you say.  Answer: Fucking     
Amazing.  That's what it is!!!  If you have a small knowledge of
electronics and soldering (oh and a copy the interlace demo)    
then I strongly suggest you try this out.                       
                                                                
I used Busysoft's circuit diagram in Interlace for reference and
you'll be glad that it works for an AY-3-8912 (Spectrum 128 +2's
have 'em. Infact I think all 128 speccies have the 8912. The    
8910, I think, is in the AY interface!).  All the pin-outs are  
correct and the circuit works with much good workingness!!  So  
much respect goes to BusySoft (+Hard) for the well drawn circuit
diagram.                                                        
                                                                
Now for those who are saying 'What is ACB stereo?' or those of  
you saying 'What's so 8pecial about ACB?', I shall explain.     
                                                                
Basically, ACB is as follows:                                   
                                                                
                    Channel A - Left Speaker                    
                    Channel B - Right Speaker                   
             Channel C - Centre of the Two Speakers             
                                                                
So what's so special?  Well make it for yourself and find out!! 
But if you can't be fucked or are incapable, I'll try and       
explain what it sounds like.                                    
                                                                
Well normal music (Not written with ACB in mind) can sound      
interesting if the main part of the tune jumps between channels,
as this makes it sound like it's jumping between the speakers.  
But if you get a piece of music made for ACB, it can sound (if  
made properly) very good, as in it sounds very stereo (something
I've never had from speccy and surely speccy wasn't made to be  
in stereo!!).  Oh fuck this how am I supposed to explain how it 
sounds??  Make it and experience it, that's what I say!!        
                                                                
As I am very impressed with my ACB speccy, you can expect to    
hear ACB tunes coming from me in the very near future!!  Hey,   
Amanda, how 'bout composing some ACB hardcore??  And for those  
of you with SQ-Tracker, the tracks are arranged for ACB.  So it 
makes it just that bit easier!!                                 
                                                                
Thanx for listening and ACB is fucking GOOD!!