Adventurer 15 - Interface - Yerzmyey/HPRG interview.
When and why did you start to make spectrum music?

Oh, it was quite late. I mean - first games we start to make in
middle  80s,  but  I  started  to  make  music on ZX... only in
1989/1990.

I  suppose, the first technical experience you gained exploring
someone's  tunes  for  samples, ornaments and other tricks. Who
was  that  spectrum musician who influenced your music and whom
you can call your teacher?

In  that  time  the  best  song  on  Spectrum have been made on
SoundTracker  1.1,  they  were  demo-songs of the tracker. They
were made by Hacker Kicia.

What was the first music editor that you used?

First  songs  I  was  making on BEEP commands. :) Although they
were  quite  complicated.  :)  Then  I  was  using  "Wham!  The
Music-Box". Then it was "Music Box 128" and then - SoundTracker
1.1.

What  do you think about your past as a spectrum musician, what
important moments in your progression can you note?

It's  hard  to  say,  simply  I  was  learning.  Maybe the most
important were two moments:

1)  When  I  decided  to add very complicated composition to my
songs (based on proggressive rock and art-rock)

2)  When  I decided that square wave is too boring for using it
too often and I started to invent many new sounds for 50Hz.

How  do  you think, do you have any fans, and what do you think
they  particularly  like  in  your music? Would you like to say
some words for them?

If  I  didn't knew about them, I would think I haven't fans. :)
But  many  persons write to me about it, so I realize that many
persons like my chips for ZX.

And the only thing I would like to say, it's: "thanx for giving
me strength to be active still". :)

What  musical  instruments do you use (if you ever used) during
composing prosess? Do you have any experience of musicmaking on
other platforms? What do you think about it?

You  mean  -  non-ZX activity? I make music for Amiga and PC. I
intend  to  make  music  for  Atari  8-bit  too. And about real
instruments,  I'm  a  professional  musician,  I've published 5
records until now (under various nicknames), you can read about
it more in Russian Encyclopedy of Electronic Music.

Do  you like to criticize yourself? What is the weakest spot in
your techniques (rythm, melody, arrangement or something else)?

Do  I  *LIKE*  to  criticize  myself??? Nobody likes it, and if
anybody contradicts - he's a dirty liar. :)

What  is  the weakest spot in my stuff? Sadly when I make music
on  ZX, I cannot gain some cool charm, which C-Jeff can obtain.
C-Jeff is fucking good bastard. :) :) :)

What  kind  of  music do you listen, what bands/projects affect
you,  what  moods  and  feelings  you  try  to  put in your own
compositions? Remixes: what do you think of this?

About  the  first  question:  I  listen to metal and electronic
music. There is a point only to make electronic stuff on AY, so
I  make things similar to synth-pop, electronica, techno and so
on.  I  also  add  to  my  ZX-music  elements  of  art rock and
progressive rock.

The  second  quetions:  I call it 'covers' more than 'remixes',
anyway  I  made  several.  Especially  to "AY RIDERS play world
hits" album, but also for regular zx-demos.

What  music compos did you participate in, what was the highest
rate and what do you think about your achievements?

Ooooh, many music-compos. The highest was the first place.

What do you feel when your track is playing on a party? Are you
concerned  with sound equipment, people that vote or it doesn't
bother you much?

It doesn't bother me much, I guess.

Do  you have any interesting ideas about the future of spectrum
music?  Maybe  there  are some hardware or software innovations
that you would like to have?

The  most  interesting  for  sample  music is General Sound. It
SHOULD  be more and more known in ZX world. About chip stuff, I
think for some time about forcing somebody to make an interface
with filters for AY. (Of course controlled by CPU). But I don't
think anybody will make such an interface. :-

What is the most interesting aspect in spectrum music composing
for  you  -  to  perfect  your  skills within the bounds of one
'style'   or  'genre',  or  to  continue  the  thorny  path  of
experiments with sound and techniques?

Both. ;) And many more interesting aspects.

Can  you  tell  us  some  your  original ideas that you want to
realize  in your music, maybe you want to make a demo or a game
soundtrack,  maybe  just  to try what you have never tried yet,
the new field of applying your talent?

The  best  would  be  to make many songs for new music-mode for
Speccy  - SidSound made by some Czech people. But for now there
is no tracker for it on ZX. I hope Gasman will change it. ;)

What   do   you  think  about  co-operative  composing,  is  it
interesting  for  you,  whom would you like to make music with?
Please name 3 authors among the contemporary spectrum musicians
that you like most.

Co-operative? It's cool thing.

3 authors? C-Jeff, TDM, and rest of AY_RIDERS staff.

Can  you  say  some words of advise for those musicians who are
just starting out?

I can't believe there is any music-newbies on ZX. :(