Subliminal Extacy 01 - Dear Extacy-3/Subliminal Extacy
Dear Extacy-3/Subliminal Extacy,                                
                                                                
I dont know why but for some strange reason I decided I would   
write this letter in Tasword 2. I suppose it was so you can put 
it in any new issue of Subliminal Extacy that may be released.  
(Ta Daaa!!!. ED.)                                               
Good magazine though. I usually use PCG's Wordmaster you see, so
am not really used to this thing yet anyway and I'm sure you can
make sense of it.                                               
                                                                
I have thought up some more baby jokes similar to the ones in   
the first issue which you might like:                           
                                                                
What's flat and red?                                            
A baby in a car-crusher...                                      
                                                                
What's small, red and lies at the bottom of the ocean?          
A baby with a brick tied around it's neck.                      
                                                                
(Great jokes there Datasoft!!!.ED.)                             
                                                                
Yes, sick I know but pretty funny all the same (if you have the 
right sense of humour. The original ones were pretty funny too) 
                                                                
While I have the opportunity: hi to Twix, all of E-3 (Bogie in  
particular), United Minds, the Unbelievables, Black Knight      
Software, and Zack.                                             
                                                                
Yours, John Garner (aka DATAsoft)                               
"Zuchinni?"  "No thanks, I'm trying to give them up" (YS quote) 
(Eh?? Don't get it!!!.ED.)                                      
                                                                
Also I'd like to place an advert in the next one,               
"OK all those coders out there I am looking for more contacts,  
I'm in ENGLAND and have a +D system. Also hoping (sometime) to  
form a coding group - interested?? Write to me (John            
Garner/DATAsoft) at:                                            
                    The Orchard                                 
                    Moor Road                                   
                    Langham                                     
                    Colchester                                  
                    Essex                                       
                    СОЧ SNR                                     
                    ENGLAND