Subliminal Extacy 01 - Subliminal Tunes
Subliminal Tunes                        
                        ----------------
                             By L.A.                            
                             -------
This small article is about the music that I have composed for  
this issue of S.E., so if your totally uninterested in music,   
FUCK OFF!!  Go read some other article!                         
                                                                
Firstly you will notice there are 2 tunes which you can toggle  
between.  The first contains 2 seperate tunes, the second is one
rather long tune.  The first tune is called 'Multi-Song' for    
rather unoriginal reasons!!  The second is called 'Chaos'.      
                                                                
Now follows some short infos on each tune.                      
                                                                
'Multi-Song'                                                    
-----------
Time 2 Compose:- About 1 Hour for first part.  Second part is a 
                 remix of an Amiga tune which Dok of the United 
                 Minds will most probably recognise.  Remixing  
                 only took 20 minutes.                          
                                                                
General Notes:-  First part uses a rather uncomplex melody for  
                 added f-ect.  The second part uses some very   
                 worrying key changes!!  I just hope you enjoy  
                 it!!  The amiga version used 4 channels but I  
                 cleverly changed the tune so it sounded the    
                 same with 3 channels.  The first part is in my 
                 opinion a sort of EURO-NEW WAVE-POOCAKE type of
                 tune.  The second part is just fucking cool.   
                                                                
Composed On:-    24/2/95                                        
                                                                
'Chaos'                                                         
------
Time 2 Compose:- About 1 and a half hours.                      
                                                                
General Notes:-  This tune was composed over 2 years ago!!!  But
                 was recently remixed and funked up by myself!! 
                 Many special effects are used to give it a     
                 techno feel to it.  Some parts may sound       
                 'Fucked Up' but this the way it is supposed to 
                 sound.                                         
                                                                
Composed On:-    ??/9 - 12/92   Updated  7/3/95                 
                                                                
That's all for now.  See you next issue.