Adventurer 15 - Interface - Miguel/CPU interview.
When and why did you start to make spectrum music?

First attempts of composing I undertook in the end of 98/beginning of 99. At that time basically I tried to make gfx for some crazy projects guided by Ray or Cav Inc., played and assembled Adventurer :) But the interest to AY music appeared some time earlier, almost after I had a possibility to observe and to take part in finishing the Pressure demo in a big hurry to attend the Funtop demoparty. We gathered at Veka's place, and Chasm had to edit the soundtrack by combining and mixing few patterns made by Never. I though it's very difficuilt, with that weird Pro Tracker 2 editor, with numbers and ornaments...

My first module I made for the release intro of some game that I can't remember now, which we wanted to attach to the zine. It was a bet between Demon and Elf whether I'll do it in time or not. And I made this absolute crap for 3 days :) I didn't even know what do that numbers in the left column mean, though the whole track was written on the envelope, cos I considered that this is the only suitable sample, except drums...

I  suppose, the first technical experience you gained exploring
someone's  tunes  for  samples, ornaments and other tricks. Who
was  that  spectrum musician who influenced your music and whom
you can call your teacher?

It's Never. I studied to combine bass with drums, to make good envelope and samples on his tracks. The other one was Ironman, from whom I took some interesting ideas about ornaments.

What was the first music editor that you used?
 

Cos Pro Tracker 2 still remains a totally unusable thing, I started composing only when version 3.1 appeared.

4.What  do you think about your past as a spectrum musician, what
important moments in your progression can you note?

My musical past is very confusing, I think I missed a lot of things that should be done in time, but there are some important moments of my 'career' for me that I can mention.

Of course, it's Chaos Constructions'1999. It was the first party that began my misfortunes on the stage and the whole row of unsuccessive performances that continues by now, though it made my spirit stronger. Since then I got used to lose, so it let me to get rid of many unuseful ambitions and do really what I want to do.

For CC'000 music compo I made a track 1.5 minutes long and came to a conclusion that any track must be straightforward and finished when there's nothing else to say. This track was lost by organizers, my work disk crashed, so it remains only in my mind, not a melody, but as an important event. I remember only the beginning, which was made so, that it resembled the warm-up of some band (so Miguel Dreadful Band brand appeared) before rehearsal, when every single member plays something on his own, while making sound adjustments. Of course, there is no coherence, everybody plays what he want, and then the drummer starts the rythm - and the action starts...

Then I had to move towards soundtracks for Adventurer intros, cos Never left this duty and Spectrum at all. So, I think with Adventurer#13 intro soundtrack I reached the triumph in these affairs, I got the full freedom, I made really what I wanted, not considering about technical moments and means, but made an accent on the theme.

But the most important module for me is Das Verbaten La Fuego
Ver Chuta, that competed at some of Forevers...

How  do  you think, do you have any fans, and what do you think
they  particularly  like  in  your music? Would you like to say
some words for them?

I'm sure only in one person - there was a guy in Rybinsk, Fixar, he always told me that he is a fan of mine :))) I don't really know. Many of people have respect for my music, but I don't know whether it is frankly or not.

What do they like? Maybe that it's always interesting to expect something new from me, I have no similar tracks. But maybe that I pay a lot of attention to the rythm part of a track and to the samples, while the melody in the majority of my tracks is inarticulate. 

6.What  musical  instruments do you use (if you ever used) during
composing prosess? Do you have any experience of musicmaking on
other platforms? What do you think about it?

I have a classical guitar, it's about 25 years old (the contemporary of mine :) ). Many things I made using it. Though,  it very often happens that I play one thing on my guitar and make a totally different thing in the tracker. But it's called 'creativity' :) 

I tried to make something on pc, but I don't like its trackers, I like such programs as Rebirth, Reason more. But my p166mmx don't let me much. On the other hand, with my too serious attitude to composing, when I make a track for a month and even more and finally don't even finish it, plus the enormous possibilities on the pc, when you can make almost everything and it's hard to concentrate a certain idea or a theme, it turns absolutely unreal to make a track at least 4 minutes long. So, it's better for me to stay here, it's more than enough for me, and I already have my public here.

7.Do  you like to criticize yourself? What is the weakest spot in
your techniques (rythm, melody, arrangement or something else)?

It's melody, as I said above. I can't imagine, how Gasman or Justinas make jazz tracks, it's almost incomprehensible for me, I think it's very easy to get lost in these chord sequences. Maybe that why everything is always very clear and not very varied. On the other hand, it's easy to understand and energetically, I'm sure, it is stronger.

What  kind  of  music do you listen, what bands/projects affect
you,  what  moods  and  feelings  you  try  to  put in your own
compositions? Remixes: what do you think of this?

Shit, goddamn questions... There are many of them, and in different periods of life their affection is different too. However, it's not about the certain band of performer, for example, any interesting track or even its short part can push me towards the few months long experiments. So I can't say something definately, some give me ideas about the rythm, some - about melody, and so on, and I'm constantly thinking it over and combining in various unexpected ways. It's a pity that almost everything vanishes long before I start Pro Tracker :))

Mood is very changeable and subtle thing. Of course, I try to describe some spectre of feeling as full as possible and I often change it with the other.

From the very beginning remixes seemed to be a waste of time, though you can gain a lot of experience. But original is always better, and most of remixes are unpleasant to listen. Although made by Nik-O :)

What  music compos did you participate in, what was the highest
rate and what do you think about your achievements?

Oops. I took part in a lot of compos as I said above, but wasn't rated too high. However, one of the latest compo's results I liked much - Forever Quattro, when the last 3 places were occupated by me, c-jeff and key jee :)) We are the best!!!

What I think? I must say, that I didn't compete in the last two CAFe's. There are many who can reproach me with it saying that if nobody will attend parties there won't be any party and Spectrum gonna die! %)) It's just became boring for me to make a PARTY track, without any pleasure and in a short time... Also I can't present the old tracks in the way someone does (guess who). I'd better devote myself to what I like, I hope the others will like it too. So if you can't see me in a party music list - don't think I'm gone :) !

What do you feel when your track is playing on a party? Are you
concerned  with sound equipment, people that vote or it doesn't
bother you much?

Uhhh, it was very long time ago when I heard something by my own at the party last time. At CAFe'2002, I was upset with the fact, that I had nothing to present at the music compo, I thought, that with all that possibilities and ideas that I had before party and which I didn't realize (because of someone) I could blew up the compo!

Audience and equipment mean nothing to me since a long time. Cos we'll never see both perfect. Sound is always better at home, public is always the same (and usually dumb).

Do  you have any interesting ideas about the future of spectrum
music?  Maybe  there  are some hardware or software innovations
that you would like to have?

I'd like to try to make music based on AY sound but with additional digital samples. It would be interesting to combine envelopes with digital sound. And drums, that mean much to me, could increase the whole drive. Maybe digital music compo must be returned.

Also, it would be interesting to compose with double AY. But it needs a better development of hardware and software solutions.

Finallly, I long for someone to take the Pro Tracker's source code away from Alco and to make a really CONVENIENT editor. It's a pity that Sage couldn't finish their stuff.

What is the most interesting aspect in spectrum music composing
for  you  -  to  perfect  your  skills within the bounds of one
'style'   or  'genre',  or  to  continue  the  thorny  path  of
experiments with sound and techniques?

The second, of course. Though if you know almost nothing it's hard to make experiments. But exploring new sound and approach make you think about techniques. So, the result is that one thing can't manage without the other. However, technique is a very diverse thing. The arragement technique needs the basic musical education from the composer.

Can  you  tell  us  some  your  original ideas that you want to
realize  in your music, maybe you want to make a demo or a game
soundtrack,  maybe  just  to try what you have never tried yet,
the new field of applying your talent?

I'd like to make more demo soundtracks. Soundtracks attract me much.

What   do   you  think  about  co-operative  composing,  is  it
interesting  for  you,  whom would you like to make music with?
Please name 3 authors among the contemporary spectrum musicians
that you like most.

I've been never lucky in this stuff. I tried to make something with Moran, but no worthy results followed. So now I can't imagine me co-operating with someone.

The most interesting? I don't know. If someone become interesting to me, he turns the other side and disappoint me more than I expect :) But I think they are Nik-O, Fatal Snipe. Sometimes c-jeff.

Can  you  say  some words of advise for those musicians who are
just starting out?

OK. At the beginning I should say - listen AY music more. Estimate, examine, research, explore in editor, than forget it all and begin to make your music!