Subliminal Extacy 01 - Split Personalities
Split Personalities                      
                       -------------------
                         By Bogie Of E-3                        
                         ---------------
I sure that you have heard of people having 'Split              
Personalities', you may have called them two faced or something!
But as you probably know that there are some people who really  
have more than one personality!!!  The second personality within
this person may go by a different name and talk slightly        
different, yet be in the same body!!!  There was one case where 
one peson had over 40 (yes 40!!!) different personalities!!!    
How did he remember all their names????  Peoples second         
personality might not just have a different name but have       
different physical needs!!  For example the second personality  
may need to wear glasses!!!  Does this mean that the second     
personality could be left handed or have a limp?????  It could  
be even worse by the second personality having a wooden leg,    
glass eye and has had a finger cut off in a woodwork practical  
at school! Just imagine at the pub the second personality comes 
out and decides to freak everybody out by taking his wooden leg 
off and put his glass eye into someone's pint!!!  Then the first
personality comes out to find his real leg on the floor and his 
real eye looking at himself from inside a pint glass!!!  How    
could he put his leg back on and eye back into it's socket????  
What if your second personality is gay or comes from a different
country???  You could suddenly find yourself giving a black, gay
Russian a blow job!!!  Bloody second personality!!!             
                                                                
Well this is only a short article for you to think about!!!  So 
go and buy a second personality (from a second hand shop maybe??
?) and have some fun!!!  Just think if you get caught killing   
someone you can blame it on your second peronality!!!  Lots of  
people have used this excuse in the past and in court they      
hypnotise you to get the second personality out and ask him if  
he done it!!!!!  And people still get away with it!!!!          
                                                                
Now one last thing to think about!!!  Have you got a split      
personality???  and if you have, is your second personality the 
same sex as you??????