ACNews 67 - News - Dart Alver from Smolensk appeared with huge patch to Burial Gfx Editor, Wanderer wrote new scripting engine for his next game
News
by Alone Coder
A long pause was taken to finish the next step of NedoLang
compiler. What was done:
-
enum (BYTE type only).
-
switch-case (BYTE type only).
-
INCLUDE and INCBIN in NedoAsm.
-
Z80 library (multiplucation, division, shifts).
-
TR-DOS I/O library. As in TR-DOS commands, sequential files
are divided in ЧKB parts with same name, differing only by
"start" parameter. This allows opening several files for write
at once. Still missing random access files and re-opening files
for write.
-
Self-compilation. For it, the source was severely optimized
for size and label file size (crucial for assembly that requires
all the labels at the same time). Initially every part of the
system could be compiled automatically on single TRD, but after
some speed optimization and adding features (see below) it
requires semi-automated compilation on RAM disk. Sadly the
self-compilation is far from 1 minute - each of 3 parts
(compiler, tokenized, and assembler) requires around 2 minutes.
The sequence of operations is scripted in Basic loader (later in
two Basic loaders because of lack of memory for assembly). I
think about adding a batch processor.
- A lot of bugs were fixed thanks to self-compilation. I check
the binary generated by PC Nedolang against the one generated by
ZX Nedolang, and expect them to match. The testing is 
semi-automated.
- A demo was released (NedoGift: LVD 35) to check the process of
software development.
-
call by pointer (without parameters).
-
struct (no sub-structures yet).
-
EXPORT to export labels. C exports every label. NedoLang
allows you to tell which ones to export (variables, procedures,
functions, arrays, but not constants, because all exported
labels are pointers). NedoAsm does too.
- Primitive
separate compilation was added - mostly for compiler
itself (one part is code generator, another is the language). It
exports relocation information but can't relocate yet. So you
can
INCBIN a module in your program in given address, for what
it was compiled, using
EXPORTed labels.
- A
stable 48K version of the system was released, complete with
sources. See it at
http://alonecoder.nedopc.com/zx/
-
#include modules.
-
#define constants for C compatibility with array sizes (can be
typed).
-
#ifdef (can't be nested so far).
-
+sizeof(<type>).
- Typecast doesn't more need
'+' before parentheses.
-
Experimental 2D tile-sprite library was written for future
games. I am debugging it now, and adding more procedures.
Resource converter is bundled with the system. For now, it
supports only 48K Speccy.
- Experimental ARM Thumb target was added, still in pre-alpha
state.

While I did it,
FlashZX released an April 1st demoversion of
Battletoads game. I was shocked to see what can be done with 
EvoSDK (slightly enriched by
Hippiman ). So I'll think better
about new sprite library :)

Dart Alver from Smolensk (there was not any known ZX scene!)
appeared with huge patch to Burial Gfx Editor. It includes new
magnify engine (bugs fixed, 8x8 option, pattern drawing added),
new file option (with rename, delete and even copy), pixel
perfect cursor movement, built-in help, and return of CHR font
plug-in. The current version is hosted at
http://alonecoder.nedopc.com/zx/
Wanderer wrote new scripting engine for his next game, but the
project has stalled because he has found a new job.

Arwald finished his graduation thesis and resumed his game
projects.

New issue of Info Guide e-zine moves slowly. A few articles
arrived. I started translation.
Karbo provided several songs.
John Silver wrote few more patterns :) I gave him my PC, and
after some vaccum cleaning it got worked again! However I still
haven't taken it away.
Louisa is thought to have a toe broken,
so she can't drive :( (P.S.: Today she recovered.)

SpeccyWiki goes
4000 articles! Tiboh adds information about
groups while he updates
ZXAAA demo archive.
AmoNik wrote an unprecedented autobiography in the field of
computing in Leningrad. The story starts in 1988! You can read
it here. Maybe later we can add up information about these early
years from different sides in one book (see the previous issues
of ACNews ).