Subliminal Extacy 02 - How To Contribute To Subliminal Extacy
>>>>> How To Contribute To Subliminal Extacy <<<<<        
                                                               
                   -= By L.A. Of Extacy-3 =-                    
                   -------------------------                    
                                                               
As we are hoping to be producing Subliminal Extacy around 4 to 6
Times a year, we need as many quality articles as we can get.   
Therefore we are asking everyone who reads Subliminal Extacy to 
consider writing an article for it.  Whether you are in a good  
group, an unheard of group, considered a lamer or not even on   
the scene, you can still produce an interesting article for this
magazine, to mis-quote a famous author; Everyone has at least   
one good story in them.                                         
                                                                
Articles can be about anything at all, hints and tips, opinions,
reviews, silly or serious stories and just about anything else  
you can think of!                                               
                                                                
Please do not copy articles in from books and magazines etc.    
However, there is nothing wrong with using books as a reference 
material, or quoting from them.  If you find an article in a    
newspaper or magazine you feel needs reporting on, please credit
the original author and the publication including it's date.    
                                                                
We will print all articles in good faith that the copyright is  
owned by the person who tells us he/she wrote it.               
                                                                
The article should be in ASCII format, and we prefer mixed      
upper/lower case if possible.  Please DO NOT send any other     
format than ASCII, ANSI or TASWORD 2 (64 width).  If you're not 
sending a TASWORD 2 (Or Tasword 128) file then don't right      
justify it and avoid using margins, this makes converting it for
inclusion in Subliminal Extacy much easier.                     
                                                                
Please... Do.... Not... Fill.. Your.. Articles... With..        
Dots.. like.... this... as.. it.. is VERY IRRITATING as I'm sure
you can see (and hard to read). If you put them in, we will take
them out! There is a comma you know!                            
                                                                
Please send your articles on the following formats only!        
                                                                
                    +D DSDD 780k 3.5" disks                    
               +D 40/80 DS 380k/780k 5.25" disks               
               +3 40 track DS 173k-208k 3" disks               
                             Tape                              
                     Opus DSDD 3.5" disks                      
                   Opus 40/80 DS 5.25" disks                   
                  Amiga DSDD 880k 3.5" disks                   
                    PC DSDD 720k 3.5" disks                     
                                                               
Send Your Articles To :                                         
                                                                
                             L.A.                              
                       14 DeVerose Court                       
                            Hanham                             
                            BRISTOL                            
                           BS15 ЗSW                            
                            ENGLAND                                                                                                                        Or......                                                                                                                         Bogie                             
                      23 Petersway GDNS.                       
                          St. George                           
                            BRISTOL                            
                            BSS 8TA                            
                            ENGLAND                             
                                                               
If You have any Question's ring                                 
                                                                
          L.A. on: +44 (0272) 618082 .. Ask For Neil            
                                                               
NOTES ON WRITING ARTICLES                                       
-------------------------                                       
                                                                
Remember to have all articles in ASCII format at least.  If the 
file is too long to fit into the space we allocate it then it   
will be edited!  All views are welcomed.  Anyone may write      
articles.  Just follow these easy to follow rules -             
                                                                
            No Handwritten or Typewritten letters!             
                        No Time-wasters                        
                No other text format than ASCII                
Your Text file must be displayable on a 64 Chr$ wide text viewer
           (e.g TASWORD 2 in 64 Chr$ width mode)               
 If you want your disks and tapes returned then please enclose 
                        return postage.                         

                                                                
                                                               
About Clip-Art                                                  
--------------                                                  
                                                                
You may now send clip-art with your article but there are       
restictions to them!!!                                          
                                                                
1. They must be a whole number of characters high and wide.     
2. The length must be 512 bytes or less (excluding attributes). 
3. Please send them as a SCREEN$ file.                          
4. You must leave space in your article for the clip-art to fit 
into.                                                           
5. If we like your clip-art we may use it in other articles and 
future issues.                                                  
                                                                
                                                                
Thank you for taking the trouble of reading this before sending 
your submission!