Subliminal Extacy 01 - A Cure For Travel Sickness
A Cure For Travel Sickness                   
                   --------------------------
                          Bogie Of E-3                          
                          ------------
Yes this is a problem that many people suffer from, even I      
suffered from it when I was younger.  So I have come up with a  
few cures for travel sickness, some are sensible and others     
(ofcourse) are not!                                             
                                                                
1.  Take some travel sickness pills, it usually helps more if   
    you take twice the recommended dosage!! These pills are     
    easy to get hold of, the local chemist usually stocks them. 
    These pills however don't actually do anything to your body 
    they just make you think that because you've taken these    
    pills you're not going to be sick.  So this remidy is a     
    waste of money!!!                                           
                                                                
2.  This is the one that I always use to do!!  Focus on a       
    distant object, this makes you think that you not going as  
    fast as you actually are.  So it feels like your only       
    walking, or at most running.  This depends on how far the   
    object is that you are focusing on!!                        
                                                                
3.  When travelling in a car or train then sit on a newspaper!  
    I haven't a clue what this is supposed to do but L.A.'s     
    parents say it works!!!  So if you take this option and it  
    doesn't work then you can blame L.A.'s parents!!!!  I just  
    think that L.A.'s parents are just as mad as L.a.!!!  Maybe 
    madness runs in the family???                               
                                                                
4.  Walk everywhere!!!  When was the last time you felt sick    
    just from walking???  Yeah, well walking back from the pub  
    after 15 pints and 3 double Jack Daniels doesn't really     
    count does it????  Any normal person would feel sick after  
    drinking that!!!                                            
                                                                
5.  B.A. in the A-Team has a good remidy!!!  Everytime you need 
    to do any travelling then get somebody to bat you over the  
    head with a baseball bat!!!  This tends to knock you out and
    you don't actually remember the trip so didn't feel sick!!  
    But for long journey's you may regain conciousness, so it   
    helps to have someone look over you on the journey to bat   
    you again if you wake up!!!                                 
                                                                
6.  Take a few LSD and E tabs.  While under the influence of    
    these drugs you don't give a fuck what happens to yourself  
    or what you do!!!  So if you barf in someones car your not  
    gonna worry and won't be able to feel any pain as they      
    proceed to kick you head in for making their car stink of   
    shit!!!!                                                    
                                                                
7.  My final remidy is not to go anywhere!!!  Spend all you're  
    life sat at your speccy writing the best speccy demos ever. 
    Who cares if no-one knows your alive (except us speccy      
    freaks!!).  I know I don't!!!!                              
                                                                
So now you have no excuses for feeling sick while travelling    
from one place to another.  The only time you ignore these      
points is when the driver of the car owns an Atari or says that 
speccy is dead!!!                                               
               B C N U L8R M8-E.......Bogie Of E-3